Introduction:

The database is a collection of inter-related data which is used to retrieve, insert and delete the data efficiently. 
It is also used to organize the data in the form of a table, schema, views, and reports, etc.

Database Management System
Database management system is a software which is used to manage the database. For example: MySQL, Oracle, etc are a very popular 
commercial database which is used in different applications.
DBMS provides an interface to perform various operations like database creation, storing data in it, updating data, creating a table in the database and a lot more.
It provides protection and security to the database. In the case of multiple users, it also maintains data consistency.

Relational model:
can represent as a table with columns and rows. Each row is known as a tuple. Each table of the column has a name or attribute.

Domain: It contains a set of atomic values that an attribute can take.

Attribute: It contains the name of a column in a particular table. Each attribute Ai must have a domain, dom(Ai)

Relational instance: In the relational database system, the relational instance is represented by a finite set of tuples. Relation instances do not have duplicate tuples.

Properties of Relations
Name of the relation is distinct from all other relations.
Each relation cell contains exactly one atomic (single) value
Each attribute contains a distinct name
Attribute domain has no significance
tuple has no duplicate value
Order of tuple can have a different sequence

Relational Algebra
Relational algebra is a procedural query language. It gives a step by step process to obtain the result of the query. It uses operators to perform queries.

ER model: stands for an Entity-Relationship model. It is a high-level data model. This model is used to define the data elements and 
relationship for a specified system.
It develops a conceptual design for the database. It also develops a very simple and easy to design view of data.
In ER modeling, the database structure is portrayed as a diagram called an entity-relationship diagram.
For example, Suppose we design a school database. In this database, the student will be an entity with attributes like address, name, id, age, etc.
The address can be another entity with attributes like city, street name, pin code, etc and there will be a relationship between them.

Transaction:

The transaction is a set of logically related operation. It contains a group of tasks.
A transaction is an action or series of actions. It is performed by a single user to perform operations for accessing the contents of the database.
